<p>In this video I talk with Julien Malka who is a PhD student on supply
chain security. I have known Julien through Emacs, so we start our
discussion with some comments on how Julien uses Emacs for note-taking
and as a general purpose computing environment. We then shift our
attention to the research area of Julien which involves, among others,
functional package managers and reproducibility at-large. In this
light, we cover Nix at length while commenting on its GNU counterpart,
Guix. Nix is a functional package manager, a programming language, and
can also be deployed as a fully fledged operating system. I learn from
Julien about the different kinds of reproducibility and gain a better
understanding of what kind of advantages we get by using a functional
package manager for our system. The “recipes” that derive software
packages in this world are written in a pure functional programming
language and Julien explains what kind of advantages this design has.
Julien explains that NixOS is quite different from other Linux
distributions, in terms of how it does certain things. As such, those
who want to use it should know what they are working towards and have
the right expectations. Towards the end of our talk, I also ask Julien
about academic life in France with regard to digital sovereignty and
the kind of incentives researchers have for contributing to free and
open source software.</p>

<h2>Links from Julien Malka</h2>

<ul>
  <li>my personal website: <a href="https://luj.fr">https://luj.fr</a></li>
  <li>NixOS home page: <a href="https://nixos.org">https://nixos.org</a></li>
  <li>Guix home page: <a href="https://guix.gnu.org/">https://guix.gnu.org/</a></li>
  <li>reproducible-builds: <a href="https://reproducible-builds.org">https://reproducible-builds.org</a></li>
  <li>bootstrapable-builds: <a href="https://www.bootstrappable.org">https://www.bootstrappable.org</a></li>
  <li>Eelco Dolstra PhD thesis: <a href="https://edolstra.github.io/pubs/phd-thesis.pdf">https://edolstra.github.io/pubs/phd-thesis.pdf</a></li>
</ul>

<h2>About “Prot Asks”</h2>

<p>In this new video series, I talk to anybody who is interested to have
a video call with me (so do contact me if you want!). The topics cover
anything related to Emacs, technology, and life in general. More here:
<a href="https://protesilaos.com/prot-asks/">https://protesilaos.com/prot-asks/</a>.</p>